better is the poor who walks in his
better is the poor who walks in his integrity than one who is perverse in
integrity than one who is perverse in
integrity than one who is perverse in his lips and is a fool also it is not
his lips and is a fool also it is not
his lips and is a fool also it is not good for a soul to be without knowledge
good for a soul to be without knowledge
good for a soul to be without knowledge and he sins who hastens with his feet
and he sins who hastens with his feet
and he sins who hastens with his feet the foolishness of a man twists his way
the foolishness of a man twists his way
the foolishness of a man twists his way and his heart frets against the Lord
wealth makes many friends but the poor
wealth makes many friends but the poor is separated from his friend a false
is separated from his friend a false
is separated from his friend a false witness will not go unpunished and he
witness will not go unpunished and he
witness will not go unpunished and he who speaks lies will not escape many
who speaks lies will not escape many
who speaks lies will not escape many entreat the favor of the nobility and
entreat the favor of the nobility and
entreat the favor of the nobility and every man is a friend to one who gives
every man is a friend to one who gives
every man is a friend to one who gives gifts all the brothers of the poor hate
gifts all the brothers of the poor hate
gifts all the brothers of the poor hate him how much more do his friends go far
him how much more do his friends go far
him how much more do his friends go far from him he may pursue them with words
from him he may pursue them with words
from him he may pursue them with words yet they abandoned him he who gets
yet they abandoned him he who gets
yet they abandoned him he who gets wisdom loves his own soul he who keeps
wisdom loves his own soul he who keeps
wisdom loves his own soul he who keeps understanding will find good a false
understanding will find good a false
understanding will find good a false witness will not go unpunished and he
witness will not go unpunished and he
witness will not go unpunished and he who speaks lies Shall Perish luxury is
who speaks lies Shall Perish luxury is
who speaks lies Shall Perish luxury is not fitting for a fool much less for a
not fitting for a fool much less for a
not fitting for a fool much less for a servant to rule over princes the
servant to rule over princes the
servant to rule over princes the discretion of a man makes him slow to
discretion of a man makes him slow to
discretion of a man makes him slow to anger and his glory is to overlook a
anger and his glory is to overlook a
anger and his glory is to overlook a transgression the Kings wrath is like
transgression the Kings wrath is like
transgression the Kings wrath is like the roaring of a lion but his favor is
the roaring of a lion but his favor is
the roaring of a lion but his favor is like the dew on the grass a foolish son
like the dew on the grass a foolish son
like the dew on the grass a foolish son is the ruin of his father and the
is the ruin of his father and the
is the ruin of his father and the contentions of a wife are a continual
contentions of a wife are a continual
contentions of a wife are a continual dripping houses and riches are an
dripping houses and riches are an
dripping houses and riches are an inheritance from father's but a prudent
inheritance from father's but a prudent
inheritance from father's but a prudent wife is from the Lord
wife is from the Lord
wife is from the Lord laziness cast one into a deep sleep and
laziness cast one into a deep sleep and
laziness cast one into a deep sleep and an idle person will suffer hunger he who
an idle person will suffer hunger he who
an idle person will suffer hunger he who keeps the commandment keeps his soul but
keeps the commandment keeps his soul but
keeps the commandment keeps his soul but he who is careless of his ways will die
he who is careless of his ways will die
he who is careless of his ways will die he who has pity on the poor lends to the
he who has pity on the poor lends to the
he who has pity on the poor lends to the Lord and he will pay back what he has
Lord and he will pay back what he has
Lord and he will pay back what he has given
given
given chasing your son while there is hope do
chasing your son while there is hope do
chasing your son while there is hope do not set your heart on his destruction a
not set your heart on his destruction a
not set your heart on his destruction a man of great wrath will suffer
man of great wrath will suffer
man of great wrath will suffer punishment for if you rescue him you
punishment for if you rescue him you
punishment for if you rescue him you will have to do it again listen to
will have to do it again listen to
will have to do it again listen to counsel and receive instruction that you
counsel and receive instruction that you
counsel and receive instruction that you may be wise in your last days there are
may be wise in your last days there are
may be wise in your last days there are many plans in a man's heart nevertheless
many plans in a man's heart nevertheless
many plans in a man's heart nevertheless the Lord's counsel that will stand what
the Lord's counsel that will stand what
the Lord's counsel that will stand what is desired in a man his kindness and a
is desired in a man his kindness and a
is desired in a man his kindness and a poor man is better than a liar the fear
poor man is better than a liar the fear
poor man is better than a liar the fear of the Lord leads to life and he who has
of the Lord leads to life and he who has
of the Lord leads to life and he who has it will abide in satisfaction he will
it will abide in satisfaction he will
it will abide in satisfaction he will not be visited with evil a lazy man
not be visited with evil a lazy man
not be visited with evil a lazy man buries his hand in the bowl and will not
buries his hand in the bowl and will not
buries his hand in the bowl and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again
strike a scoffer
strike a scoffer and the simple will become weary rebuked
and the simple will become weary rebuked
and the simple will become weary rebuked one who is understanding and he will
one who is understanding and he will
one who is understanding and he will discern knowledge
discern knowledge
discern knowledge he who mistreats his father and chases
he who mistreats his father and chases
he who mistreats his father and chases away his mother is a son who causes
away his mother is a son who causes
away his mother is a son who causes shame and brings reproach cease
shame and brings reproach cease
shame and brings reproach cease listening to instruction my son and you
listening to instruction my son and you
listening to instruction my son and you will stray from the words of knowledge a
will stray from the words of knowledge a
will stray from the words of knowledge a disreputable witness scorns justice and
disreputable witness scorns justice and
disreputable witness scorns justice and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity
the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity
the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity judgments are prepared for scoffers and
judgments are prepared for scoffers and
judgments are prepared for scoffers and beatings for the backs of fools